In this video, we're going to be
using the buffer tool to create
a buffer zone of 1 kilometre
around the oil rig near our MPA.
So first of all, let's just
remove some of these layers in
our contents that we don't need
any more.
So we'll keep the dissolved
layer that we created and we'll
remove the other spawning ground
layers.
And now let's run the buffer
tool.
So we're going to go into the
geoprocessing window and search
in buffer and it's the first
tool that comes up.
And let's put in the parameters
for this tool.
So our input feature is the oil
rig as this is the layer that we
want to create the buffer zone
around.
And now we need to choose where
we want to save the new buffer
layer to and what we're going to
name it.
So let's make sure it's going
into our Geodatabase and we'll
name it oil rig buffer.
And now the distance.
We're creating a buffer zone of
1 kilometre, so we can put one
in this first box.
And we're going to choose the
linear unit option as we are
measuring in kilometres.
But we could choose field if our
layer had a column in its table
that specified the buffer
distance. And now we want to
choose the units to be
kilometres, the side type we
could choose full, which would
mean that the buffer zone would
include the area of the feature
being buffered, or the other
option which excludes the input
Polygon from the buffer.
It doesn't really matter for
what we're doing as we're just
using this to see whether the
buffer zone would overlap, but
we'll just use the exclude
option.
The method planar measures
distance in on a 2D plane,
whereas geodesic will account
for the shape of the earth.
So you should use geodesic if
your data is covering multiple
UTM zones or your projection may
distort area or distance.
But since we're using a singular
UTM zone that's minimising
distortion, we can choose the
Planar option and the dissolve
type just allows us to choose
whether we want to dissolve any
of the boundaries.
But we can just leave this as no
dissolve and run the tool and
now we can see our new layer on
our map and in our contents.
So we have a 1 kilometer buffer
zone around the location of the
oil rig, and we can zoom to this
layer by right clicking on it in
the contents and clicking the
zoom to layer.
And we can see that it's buffer
zone does overlap with the no
take zone that we're proposing
for the spawning months.
So we'll need to remove this
area of the no take zone.
So just remember to hit save to
save your progress.